DEVDOCS-1341 (#652)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/stencil-docs/developing-further/catalog-price-object.md

<div class="otp" id="no-index">

### On this page
- [Catalog price object examples excluding tax](#catalog-price-object-examples-excluding-tax)
- [Catalog price object examples including and excluding tax](#catalog-price-object-examples-including-and-excluding-tax)
- [Control panel quick reference](#control-panel-quick-reference)
- [Resources](#resources)

</div> 

As a theme developer, you can use the catalog price object to highlight the savings that a merchant is offering over the MSRP directly on the storefront by referencing the product's `price` object and the correct property for the product.

Merchants can use control panel options to set the following prices for a catalog product:

| Field | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | Default Price | This is the product’s standard store price. The **Excluding/Including Tax** indicator to the right of the **Default Price** field is applicable to all price fields (**Cost**, **MSRP**, **Sale Price**).|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Default Price | The product’s standard store price. The **Excluding/Including Tax** indicator to the right of the **Default Price** field applies to all price fields (**Cost**, **MSRP**, **Sale Price**).|

```

## Catalog price object examples including and excluding tax

> Depending on the store’s  [**Tax Display Settings**](https://login.bigcommerce.com/deep-links/manage/settings/tax/settings), the `price` object will display prices in one of the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the store's  [**Tax Display Settings**](https://login.bigcommerce.com/deep-links/manage/settings/tax/settings), the `price` object will display prices in one of the following ways:

```

}
```

In this example:

* `with_tax` - this property represents the `without_tax` value plus a 10% tax markup.
* `rrp_with_tax` - this property represents the `rrp_without_tax` value plus a 10% tax markup.

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--warning">
<div class="HubBlock-content">

<!-- theme: warning -->

### Tax display configurations
> The same properties and values are returned for **Including tax** and **Including and excluding tax** display settings. These properties and values are not available for a control panel setting of **Excluding tax**.

</div>
</div>
</div>

### Sale price defined in control panel

Assume that a merchant has defined the following tax configurations for a product in the control panel, alongside a defined sale price:

> * Show prices on product pages including and excluding tax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Show prices on product pages, including and excluding tax.

```

> * Use a flat rate of 10% tax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use a flat rate of 10% tax.

}
```

In this example:

* `non_sale_price_with_tax` and `non_sale_price_without_tax` properties represent the standard store price with and without tax.
* `sale_price_with_tax` and `sale_price_without_tax` properties represent the product's defined sale price.

> * `saved` - this value is based on the difference between the `with_tax` and `non_sale_price_with_tax` values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `saved` is the value based on the difference between the `with_tax` and `non_sale_price_with_tax` values.

```

## Control panel quick reference

The table below explains the mapping between the control panel fields and the catalog price object properties and values.

| Field | Catalog Price Object Property | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Default Price (excluding tax) |<ul><li><b>Sale Price</b> is defined:</li> <code>{{ product.price.non_sale_price_without_tax }}</code><li><b>Sale Price</b> is not defined:</li> <code>{{ product.price.without_tax }}</code></ul>| The standard store price for the product. |
 Default Price (including tax) |<ul><li><b>Sale Price</b> is defined:</li> <code>{{ product.price.non_sale_price_with_tax }}</code><li><b>Sale Price</b> is not defined:</li> <code>{{ product.price.with_tax }}</code></ul>| The standard store price for the product, with tax. |

>  Cost |Cost  is not returned in the catalog price object.| This field represents true cost of goods, and is typically meant for reports and third-party accounting integrations. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Cost |The catalog price object does not contain cost.| This field represents the true cost of goods; use it for reports and third-party accounting integrations. |

```

> MSRP (excluding tax)|`{{ product.price.rrp_without_tax }}`| This field represents the product’s list price, or the manufacturer's suggested retail price. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MSRP (excluding tax)|`{{ product.price.rrp_without_tax }}`| This field represents the product's list price, or the manufacturer's suggested retail price. |

```

> MSRP (including tax)|`{{ product.price.rrp_with_tax }}`| This field represents the product’s list price, or the manufacturer's suggested retail price, including tax. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MSRP (including tax)|`{{ product.price.rrp_with_tax }}`| This field represents the product's list price, or the manufacturer's suggested retail price, including tax. |

```

> Sale Price (excluding tax)|`{{product.price.sale_price_without_tax}}`| This product’s discounted/sale price. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sale Price (excluding tax)|`{{product.price.sale_price_without_tax}}`| This product's discounted/sale price. |

```

> Sale Price (including tax)|`{{ product.sale_price_with_tax }}`| This product’s discounted/sale price, with tax. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sale Price (including tax)|`{{ product.sale_price_with_tax }}`| This product's discounted/sale price, with tax. |

```

> Difference between Default Price and MSRP (*Default Price - MSRP)*|`{{ product.price.saved }}`| The customer’s savings on the effective price versus list price. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Difference between Default Price and MSRP (*Default Price - MSRP)*|`{{ product.price.saved }}`| The customer's savings on the effective price versus the list price. |

```

## Resources

> ### Related Articles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Related articles

```
